# Scheduling Algorithms
Scheduling is a very important problem in architectural synthesis. Whereas a sequencing graph prescribes only dependencies among the operations, the scheduling-of a sequencing graph determines the precise start time of each task. The start times must satisfy the original dependencies of the sequencing graph, which limit the amount of parallelism of the operations, because any pair of operations related by a sequency dependency (or by a chain of dependencies) may not execute concurrently.
Scheduling determines the concurrency of the resulting implementation, and therefore'it affects its pelformance. By the same token, the maximum number of concurrent operations of any given type at any step of the schedule is a lower bound on the number of required hardware resources of that type. Therefore the choice of a schedule affects also the area of the implementation.
The number of resources (of any given type) may he bounded from above to satisfy some design requirement. For example, a circuit with a prescribed size may have at most one floating point multiplierldivider. When resource constraints are imposed, the number of operations of a given type whose execution can overlap in time is limited by the number of resources of that type. A spectrum of solutions may be obtained by scheduling a sequencing graph with different resource constraints.
Tight hounds on the number of resources correlate to serialized implementations. As a limiting case, a scheduled sequencing graph may he such that all operations are executed in a linear sequence. This is indeed the case when only one resource is available to implement all operations.
Aredatency trade-off points can be derived as solutions to constrained scheduling problems for desired values of the cycle-time. The area evaluation is just a weighted sum of the resource usage for resource-dominatedcircuits. When considering other circuits, an additional component must be taken into account, corresponding to steering logic, registers, wiring and control area.

This work is based on the algorithms introduced in book SYNTHESIS AND OPTIMIZATION OF DIGITAL CIRCUITS, writen by Giovanni De Micheli
